---
share_link: https://share.note.sx/734gfjb0#rRwQpRfyALmiYKZEMptUiaDNzd6P4GjrjOnvv1VnGiQ
share_updated: 2024-10-22T16:00:28+01:00
---
- General remarks: 
	- The document reads like it was written with the conclusion already determined. I think high-impact questions like this should always start from first principles and leave room for disagreement/uncertainty. Otherwise we might end up telling ourselves a story that sounds great but ends up making us unhappy.
	- Your conclusions seem reasonable. I have picked up a few things that I've added my thoughts to. It's interesting to see how similar our lines of thought are on this.

- "My career is definitely a mission I hold near and dear to my heart. I feel by travelling after Uni, I’m losing momentum and falling behind my peers."
	- I think by "peers" you here mean people whose main priority is their career. But I think there is a wide consensus on the main priority actually being happiness (or better Aristotle's Eudaimonia) and therefore everything else is just a tool to achieve it. When I compare myself to another person, I like to first ask myself "have they understood this objective?" and then, secondary to that "are they doing the right things to get there?". It is easy to end up in a position where you are doing things just because "peers" are doing them and I have been in this state of mind before. But if they are 1) not aware of their objective function (Eudaimonia) or 2) haven't thought about whether what they are doing will get them there (and are just doing it because of THEIR "peers" / societal expectations), then they are not worth comparing oneself to. Their blindness should disqualify them from exerting any influence on oneself. 

- "Enjoy Life vs Build Career"
	- For the few that are lucky enough for these things to be equivalent, it is easy: just do your career and you will enjoy life. Considering your passion for doing shit that is not only cool (travelling etc) but also provides value (AI) I think you might be part of this group. But still, the career-related bit will probably be a different type of fun than the purely fun bit. Now the problem becomes either a trade-off (hedonism vs career-fun) or, as you conclude, you try to combine the two. In the trade-off scenario, the amount of time you allocate to each type of fun is a function of your values / personal preferences (ofc with Eudaimonia in mind). In the digital nomad lifestyle you can have both (and the traditional corporate life is always there, see next paragraph). One thing very important to me is forming meaningful connections with people around me (quality > quantity). You did not mention this specifically, but considering you want to start a family at ~30 the time-constraints for meeting people intrinsic to the nomad lifestyle might be prohibitive. I guess it depends on how long you plan to pursue that lifestyle. If its just a matter of a few years then it's probably going to work well. If its forever then I think loneliness can become a big problem.

- Traditional corporate life vs cool entrepreneurial shit?
	- This one is a bit of a tangent because it does not directly relate to your issue, but I think it might be a helpful thought.
	- Corporate life provides financial stability and tends to be less fun, but if surrounded by the right people and working on interesting problems, can still be loads of fun (e.g. research scientist at Deepmind). Doing cool shit tends to be fun at the moment, but usually comes with financial struggle (at least initially). But I think these things are not mutually exclusive. After talking to loads of people at Deloitte following the traditional corporate life, I have concluded that corporations will always be there. They are always looking for talented people that are capable of independent thought. These capabilities are better developed while doing cool shit in an entrepreneurial setting (as founder or in a small company). If the entrepreneurial path doesn't work out and at some point financial stability becomes more important than having fun (for example because one starts a family), then the corporations will always have an open door and one can just make the switch.
	- Of course, the entrepreneurial bit requires an appetite for risk. But since it is also very much fun, I think the choice is easy. The right time to do cool entrepreneurial shit is now. Later we will be old and have commitments that keep us from doing it. *Don't save sex for your old Age* (Warren Buffett)